 <div class="col-md-9" id="content">

      
      <p>Most important info first: <strong>REMEMBER YOUR PASSWORD</strong> and <strong>BACKUP YOUR KEYSTORE</strong>.</p>

<h2 id="data-directory">Data Directory</h2>

<p>Everything <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">geth</code> persists gets written inside its data directory. The default data
directory locations are platform specific:</p>

<ul>
  <li>Mac: <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">~/Library/Ethereum</code></li>
  <li>Linux: <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">~/.ethereum</code></li>
  <li>Windows: <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">%APPDATA%\Ethereum</code></li>
</ul>

<p>Accounts are stored in the <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">keystore</code> subdirectory. The contents of this directories
should be transportable between nodes, platforms, implementations (C++, Go, Python).</p>

<p>To configure the location of the data directory, the <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">--datadir</code> parameter can be
specified. See <a href="https://geth.ethereum.org/docs/interface/command-line-options">CLI Options</a> for more details.</p>

<p>Note the <a href="https://geth.ethereum.org/docs/interface/mining">ethash dag</a> is stored at <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">~/.ethash</code> (Mac/Linux) or
<code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">%APPDATA%\Ethash</code> (Windows) so that it can be reused by all clients. You can store this
in a different location by using a symbolic link.</p>

<h2 id="cleanup">Cleanup</h2>

<p>Geth’s blockchain and state databases can be removed with:</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>geth removedb
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>This is useful for deleting an old chain and sync’ing to a new one. It only affects data
directories that can be re-created on synchronisation and does not touch the keystore.</p>

<h2 id="blockchain-importexport">Blockchain Import/Export</h2>

<p>Export the blockchain in binary format with:</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>geth export &lt;filename&gt;
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>Or if you want to back up portions of the chain over time, a first and last block can be
specified. For example, to back up the first epoch:</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>geth export &lt;filename&gt; 0 29999
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>Note that when backing up a partial chain, the file will be appended rather than
truncated.</p>

<p>Import binary-format blockchain exports with:</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>geth import &lt;filename&gt;
</code></pre></div></div>

<p><em>See https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/Blockchain-import-export for more info</em></p>

<p>And finally: <strong>REMEMBER YOUR PASSWORD</strong> and <strong>BACKUP YOUR KEYSTORE</strong></p>

    </div>