  <div class="col-md-9" id="content">
      
      
      <p>The Geth JavaScript console exposes the full <a href="https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/JavaScript-API">web3 JavaScript Dapp
API</a> and further administrative
APIs.</p>

<p>(note: the web3 version bundled within geth is very old, and not up to date with official docs)</p>

<h2 id="interactive-use-the-console">Interactive Use: The Console</h2>

<p>The geth JavaScript console is started with the <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">console</code> or <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">attach</code> geth sub-commands.
The <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">console</code> subcommands starts the geth node and then opens the console. The <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">attach</code>
subcommand attaches to the console to an already-running geth instance.</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>geth console
geth attach
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>Attach mode accepts an endpoint in case the geth node is running with a non default
ipc endpoint or you would like to connect over the rpc interface.</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>geth attach /some/custom/path.ipc
geth attach http://191.168.1.1:8545
geth attach ws://191.168.1.1:8546
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>Note that by default the geth node doesn’t start the HTTP and WebSocket servers and not
all functionality is provided over these interfaces for security reasons. These defaults
can be overridden with the <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">--http.api</code> and <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">--ws.api</code> arguments when the geth node is
started, or with <a href="https://geth.ethereum.org/docs/rpc/ns-admin#admin_startrpc">admin.startRPC</a> and
<a href="https://geth.ethereum.org/docs/rpc/ns-admin#admin_startws">admin.startWS</a>.</p>

<p>If you need log information, start with:</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>geth console --verbosity 5 2&gt;&gt; /tmp/eth.log
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>Otherwise mute your logs, so that it does not pollute your console:</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>geth console 2&gt; /dev/null
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>Geth has support to load custom JavaScript files into the console through the <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">--preload</code>
option. This can be used to load often used functions, or to setup web3 contract objects.</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>geth console --preload "/my/scripts/folder/utils.js,/my/scripts/folder/contracts.js"
</code></pre></div></div>

<h2 id="non-interactive-use-script-mode">Non-interactive Use: Script Mode</h2>

<p>It’s also possible to execute files to the JavaScript interpreter. The <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">console</code> and
<code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">attach</code> subcommand accept the <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">--exec</code> argument which is a javascript statement.</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>geth attach --exec "eth.blockNumber"
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>This prints the current block number of a running geth instance.</p>

<p>Or execute a local script with more complex statements on a remote node over http:</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>geth attach http://geth.example.org:8545 --exec 'loadScript("/tmp/checkbalances.js")'
geth attach http://geth.example.org:8545 --jspath "/tmp" --exec 'loadScript("checkbalances.js")'
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>Use the <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">--jspath &lt;path/to/my/js/root&gt;</code> to set a library directory for your js scripts.
Parameters to <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">loadScript()</code> with no absolute path will be understood relative to this
directory.</p>

<p>You can exit the console by typing <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">exit</code> or simply with <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">CTRL-C</code>.</p>

<h2 id="caveats">Caveats</h2>

<p>go-ethereum now uses the <a href="https://github.com/dop251/goja">GoJa JS VM</a> which is compatible with ECMAScript 5.1. There are some limitations though:</p>

<ul>
  <li>Promises and <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">async</code> won’t work.</li>
</ul>

<p><code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">web3.js</code> uses the <a href="https://github.com/MikeMcl/bignumber.js"><code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">bignumber.js</code></a> library.
This library is auto-loaded into the console.</p>

<h3 id="timers">Timers</h3>

<p>In addition to the full functionality of JS (as per ECMA5), the ethereum JSRE is augmented
with various timers. It implements <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">setInterval</code>, <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">clearInterval</code>, <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">setTimeout</code>,
<code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">clearTimeout</code> you may be used to using in browser windows. It also provides
implementation for <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">admin.sleep(seconds)</code> and a block based timer, <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">admin.sleepBlocks(n)</code>
which sleeps till the number of new blocks added is equal to or greater than <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">n</code>, think
“wait for n confirmations”.</p>

    </div>