  <div class="col-md-9" id="content">
      
      <p><strong>WARNING</strong>
Remember your password.</p>

<p>If you lose the password you use to encrypt your account, you will not be able to access that account.
Repeat: It is NOT possible to access your account without a password and there is no <em>forgot my password</em> option here. Do not forget it.</p>

<p>The ethereum CLI <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">geth</code> provides account management via the <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">account</code> command:</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>$ geth account &lt;command&gt; [options...] [arguments...]
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>Manage accounts lets you create new accounts, list all existing accounts, import a private
key into a new account, migrate to newest key format and change your password.</p>

<p>It supports interactive mode, when you are prompted for password as well as
non-interactive mode where passwords are supplied via a given password file.
Non-interactive mode is only meant for scripted use on test networks or known safe
environments.</p>

<p>Make sure you remember the password you gave when creating a new account (with new, update
or import). Without it you are not able to unlock your account.</p>

<p>Note that exporting your key in unencrypted format is NOT supported.</p>

<p>Keys are stored under <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">&lt;DATADIR&gt;/keystore</code>. Make sure you backup your keys regularly! See
<a href="https://geth.ethereum.org/docs/install-and-build/backup-restore">DATADIR backup &amp; restore</a>
for more information. If a custom datadir and keystore option are given the keystore
option takes preference over the datadir option.</p>

<p>The newest format of the keyfiles is: <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">UTC--&lt;created_at UTC ISO8601&gt;-&lt;address hex&gt;</code>. The
order of accounts when listing, is lexicographic, but as a consequence of the timespamp
format, it is actually order of creation</p>

<p>It is safe to transfer the entire directory or the individual keys therein between
ethereum nodes. Note that in case you are adding keys to your node from a different node,
the order of accounts may change. So make sure you do not rely or change the index in your
scripts or code snippets.</p>

<p>And again. <strong>DO NOT FORGET YOUR PASSWORD</strong></p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>COMMANDS:
     list    Print summary of existing accounts
     new     Create a new account
     update  Update an existing account
     import  Import a private key into a new account
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>You can get info about subcommands by <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">geth account &lt;command&gt; --help</code>.</p>
<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>$ geth account list --help
list [command options] [arguments...]

Print a short summary of all accounts

OPTIONS:
  --datadir "/home/bas/.ethereum"  Data directory for the databases and keystore
  --keystore                       Directory for the keystore (default = inside the datadir)
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>Accounts can also be managed via the <a href="https://geth.ethereum.org/docs/interface/javascript-console">Javascript Console</a></p>

<h2 id="examples">Examples</h2>
<h3 id="interactive-use">Interactive use</h3>

<h4 id="creating-an-account">creating an account</h4>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>$ geth account new
Your new account is locked with a password. Please give a password. Do not forget this password.
Passphrase:
Repeat Passphrase:
Address: {168bc315a2ee09042d83d7c5811b533620531f67}
</code></pre></div></div>

<h4 id="listing-accounts-in-a-custom-keystore-directory">Listing accounts in a custom keystore directory</h4>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>$ geth account list --keystore /tmp/mykeystore/
Account #0: {5afdd78bdacb56ab1dad28741ea2a0e47fe41331} keystore:///tmp/mykeystore/UTC--2017-04-28T08-46-27.437847599Z--5afdd78bdacb56ab1dad28741ea2a0e47fe41331
Account #1: {9acb9ff906641a434803efb474c96a837756287f} keystore:///tmp/mykeystore/UTC--2017-04-28T08-46-52.180688336Z--9acb9ff906641a434803efb474c96a837756287f

</code></pre></div></div>

<h4 id="import-private-key-into-a-node-with-a-custom-datadir">Import private key into a node with a custom datadir</h4>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>$ geth account import --datadir /someOtherEthDataDir ./key.prv
The new account will be encrypted with a passphrase.
Please enter a passphrase now.
Passphrase:
Repeat Passphrase:
Address: {7f444580bfef4b9bc7e14eb7fb2a029336b07c9d}
</code></pre></div></div>

<h4 id="account-update">Account update</h4>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>$ geth account update a94f5374fce5edbc8e2a8697c15331677e6ebf0b
Unlocking account a94f5374fce5edbc8e2a8697c15331677e6ebf0b | Attempt 1/3
Passphrase:
0xa94f5374fce5edbc8e2a8697c15331677e6ebf0b
Account 'a94f5374fce5edbc8e2a8697c15331677e6ebf0b' unlocked.
Please give a new password. Do not forget this password.
Passphrase:
Repeat Passphrase:
0xa94f5374fce5edbc8e2a8697c15331677e6ebf0b
</code></pre></div></div>

<h3 id="non-interactive-use">Non-interactive use</h3>

<p>You supply a plaintext password file as argument to the <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">--password</code> flag. The data in the
file consists of the raw characters of the password, followed by a single newline.</p>

<p><strong>Note</strong>: Supplying the password directly as part of the command line is not recommended,
but you can always use shell trickery to get round this restriction.</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>$ geth account new --password /path/to/password 

$ geth account import  --datadir /someOtherEthDataDir --password /path/to/anotherpassword ./key.prv
</code></pre></div></div>

<h1 id="creating-accounts">Creating accounts</h1>

<h2 id="creating-a-new-account">Creating a new account</h2>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>$ geth account new
$ geth account new --password /path/to/passwdfile
$ geth account new --password &lt;(echo $mypassword)

</code></pre></div></div>

<p>Creates a new account and prints the address.</p>

<p>On the console, use:</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>&gt; personal.newAccount()
... you will be prompted for a password ...

or

&gt; personal.newAccount("passphrase")

</code></pre></div></div>

<p>The account is saved in encrypted format. You <strong>must</strong> remember this passphrase to unlock
your account in the future.</p>

<p>For non-interactive use the passphrase can be specified with the <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">--password</code> flag:</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>geth account new --password &lt;passwordfile&gt; 
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>Note, this is meant to be used for testing only, it is a bad idea to save your
password to file or expose in any other way.</p>

<h2 id="creating-an-account-by-importing-a-private-key">Creating an account by importing a private key</h2>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>    geth account import &lt;keyfile&gt;
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>Imports an unencrypted private key from <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">&lt;keyfile&gt;</code> and creates a new account and prints
the address.</p>

<p>The keyfile is assumed to contain an unencrypted private key as canonical EC raw bytes
encoded into hex.</p>

<p>The account is saved in encrypted format, you are prompted for a passphrase.</p>

<p>You must remember this passphrase to unlock your account in the future.</p>

<p>For non-interactive use the passphrase can be specified with the <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">--password</code> flag:</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>geth account import --password &lt;passwordfile&gt; &lt;keyfile&gt;
</code></pre></div></div>

<p><strong>Note</strong>: Since you can directly copy your encrypted accounts to another ethereum
instance, this import/export mechanism is not needed when you transfer an account between
nodes.</p>

<p><strong>Warning:</strong> when you copy keys into an existing node’s keystore, the order of accounts
you are used to may change. Therefore you make sure you either do not rely on the account
order or doublecheck and update the indexes used in your scripts.</p>

<p><strong>Warning:</strong> If you use the password flag with a password file, best to make sure the file
is not readable or even listable for anyone but you. You achieve this with:</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>touch /path/to/password 
chmod 700 /path/to/password
cat &gt; /path/to/password
&gt;I type my pass here^D
</code></pre></div></div>

<h2 id="updating-an-existing-account">Updating an existing account</h2>

<p>You can update an existing account on the command line with the <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">update</code> subcommand with
the account address or index as parameter. You can specify multiple accounts at once.</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>geth account update 5afdd78bdacb56ab1dad28741ea2a0e47fe41331 9acb9ff906641a434803efb474c96a837756287f
geth account update 0 1 2
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>The account is saved in the newest version in encrypted format, you are prompted
for a passphrase to unlock the account and another to save the updated file.</p>

<p>This same command can therefore be used to migrate an account of a deprecated
format to the newest format or change the password for an account.</p>

<p>After a successful update, all previous formats/versions of that same key are removed!</p>

<h1 id="importing-your-presale-wallet">Importing your presale wallet</h1>

<p>Importing your presale wallet is very easy. If you remember your password that is:</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>geth wallet import /path/to/my/presale.wallet
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>will prompt for your password and imports your ether presale account. It can be used
non-interactively with the –password option taking a passwordfile as argument containing
the wallet password in cleartext.</p>

<h1 id="listing-accounts-and-checking-balances">Listing accounts and checking balances</h1>

<h3 id="listing-your-current-accounts">Listing your current accounts</h3>

<p>From the command line, call the CLI with:</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>$ geth account list
Account #0: {5afdd78bdacb56ab1dad28741ea2a0e47fe41331} keystore:///tmp/mykeystore/UTC--2017-04-28T08-46-27.437847599Z--5afdd78bdacb56ab1dad28741ea2a0e47fe41331
Account #1: {9acb9ff906641a434803efb474c96a837756287f} keystore:///tmp/mykeystore/UTC--2017-04-28T08-46-52.180688336Z--9acb9ff906641a434803efb474c96a837756287f
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>to list your accounts in order of creation.</p>

<p><strong>Note</strong>:
This order can change if you copy keyfiles from other nodes, so make sure you either do not rely on indexes or make sure if you copy keys you check and update your account indexes in your scripts.</p>

<p>When using the console:</p>
<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>&gt; eth.accounts
["0x5afdd78bdacb56ab1dad28741ea2a0e47fe41331", "0x9acb9ff906641a434803efb474c96a837756287f"]
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>or via RPC:</p>
<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code># Request
$ curl -X POST --data '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"eth_accounts","params":[],"id":1}' -H 'Content-type: application/json' http://127.0.0.1:8545

# Result
{
  "id":1,
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "result": ["0x5afdd78bdacb56ab1dad28741ea2a0e47fe41331", "0x9acb9ff906641a434803efb474c96a837756287f"]
}
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>If you want to use an account non-interactively, you need to unlock it. You can do this on
the command line with the <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">--unlock</code> option which takes a comma separated list of accounts
(in hex or index) as argument so you can unlock the accounts programmatically for one
session. This is useful if you want to use your account from Dapps via RPC. <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">--unlock </code>
will unlock the first account. This is useful when you created your account
programmatically, you do not need to know the actual account to unlock it.</p>

<p>Create account and start node with account unlocked:</p>
<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>geth account new --password &lt;(echo this is not secret!) 
geth --password &lt;(echo this is not secret!) --unlock primary --rpccorsdomain localhost --verbosity 6 2&gt;&gt; geth.log 
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>Instead of the account address, you can use integer indexes which refers to the address
position in the account listing (and corresponds to order of creation)</p>

<p>The command line allows you to unlock multiple accounts. In this case the argument to
unlock is a comma delimited list of accounts addresses or indexes.</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>geth --unlock "0x407d73d8a49eeb85d32cf465507dd71d507100c1,0,5,e470b1a7d2c9c5c6f03bbaa8fa20db6d404a0c32"
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>If this construction is used non-interactively, your password file will need to contain
the respective passwords for the accounts in question, one per line.</p>

<p>On the console you can also unlock accounts (one at a time) for a duration (in seconds).</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>personal.unlockAccount(address, "password", 300)
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>Note that we do NOT recommend using the password argument here, since the console history
is logged, so you may compromise your account. You have been warned.</p>

<h3 id="checking-account-balances">Checking account balances</h3>

<p>To check your the etherbase account balance:</p>
<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>&gt; web3.fromWei(eth.getBalance(eth.coinbase), "ether")
6.5
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>Print all balances with a JavaScript function:</p>
<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>function checkAllBalances() {
    var totalBal = 0;
    for (var acctNum in eth.accounts) {
        var acct = eth.accounts[acctNum];
        var acctBal = web3.fromWei(eth.getBalance(acct), "ether");
        totalBal += parseFloat(acctBal);
        console.log("  eth.accounts[" + acctNum + "]: \t" + acct + " \tbalance: " + acctBal + " ether");
    }
    console.log("  Total balance: " + totalBal + " ether");
};
</code></pre></div></div>
<p>That can then be executed with:</p>
<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>&gt; checkAllBalances();
  eth.accounts[0]: 0xd1ade25ccd3d550a7eb532ac759cac7be09c2719 	balance: 63.11848 ether
  eth.accounts[1]: 0xda65665fc30803cb1fb7e6d86691e20b1826dee0 	balance: 0 ether
  eth.accounts[2]: 0xe470b1a7d2c9c5c6f03bbaa8fa20db6d404a0c32 	balance: 1 ether
  eth.accounts[3]: 0xf4dd5c3794f1fd0cdc0327a83aa472609c806e99 	balance: 6 ether
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>Since this function will disappear after restarting geth, it can be helpful to store
commonly used functions to be recalled later. The
<a href="https://geth.ethereum.org/docs/interface/javascript-console">loadScript</a>
function makes this very easy.</p>

<p>First, save the <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">checkAllBalances()</code> function definition to a file on your computer. For
example, <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">/Users/username/gethload.js</code>. Then load the file from the interactive console:</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>&gt; loadScript("/Users/username/gethload.js")
true
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>The file will modify your JavaScript environment as if you has typed the commands
manually. Feel free to experiment!</p>

    </div>