  <div class="col-md-9" id="content">

      
      <p><strong>Note: All of these and much more have been merged into the project Makefile. You can
cross build via <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">make geth-&lt;os&gt;-&lt;platform&gt;</code> without needing to know any of these details
from below.</strong></p>

<p>Developers usually have a preferred platform that they feel most comfortable working in,
with all the necessary tools, libraries and environments set up for an optimal workflow.
However, there’s often need to build for either a different CPU architecture, or an
entirely different operating system; but maintaining a development environment for each
and switching between the them quickly becomes unwieldy.</p>

<p>Here we present a very simple way to cross compile Ethereum to various operating systems
and architectures using a minimal set of prerequisites and a completely containerized
approach, guaranteeing that your development environment remains clean even after the
complex requirements and mechanisms of a cross compilation.</p>

<p>The currently supported target platforms are:</p>

<ul>
  <li>ARMv7 Android and iOS</li>
  <li>32 bit, 64 bit and ARMv5 Linux</li>
  <li>32 bit and 64 bit Mac OSX</li>
  <li>32 bit and 64 bit Windows</li>
</ul>

<p>Please note, that cross compilation does not replace a release build. Although resulting
binaries can usually run perfectly on the desired platform, compiling on a native system
with the specialized tools provided by the official vendor can often result in more a
finely optimized code.</p>

<h2 id="cross-compilation-environment">Cross compilation environment</h2>

<p>Although the <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">go-ethereum</code> project is written in Go, it does include a bit of C code
shared between all implementations to ensure that all perform equally well, including a
dependency to the GNU Multiple Precision Arithmetic Library. Because of these, Go cannot
by itself compile to a different platform than the host. To overcome this limitation, we
will use <a href="https://github.com/karalabe/xgo"><code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">xgo</code></a>, a Go cross compiler package based on
Docker containers that has been architected specifically to allow both embedded C snippets
as well as simpler external C dependencies during compilation.</p>

<p>The <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">xgo</code> project has two simple dependencies: Docker (to ensure that the build
environment is completely contained) and Go. On most platforms these should be available
from the official package repositories. For manually installing them, please consult their
install guides at <a href="https://docs.docker.com/installation/">Docker</a> and
<a href="https://golang.org/doc/install">Go</a> respectively. This guide assumes that these two
dependencies are met.</p>

<p>To install and/or update xgo, simply type:</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>$ go get -u github.com/karalabe/xgo
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>You can test whether <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">xgo</code> is functioning correctly by requesting it to cross
compile itself and verifying that all cross compilations succeeded or not.</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>$ xgo github.com/karalabe/xgo
...

$ ls -al
-rwxr-xr-x  1 root     root      2792436 Sep 14 16:45 xgo-android-21-arm
-rwxr-xr-x  1 root     root      2353212 Sep 14 16:45 xgo-darwin-386
-rwxr-xr-x  1 root     root      2906128 Sep 14 16:45 xgo-darwin-amd64
-rwxr-xr-x  1 root     root      2388288 Sep 14 16:45 xgo-linux-386
-rwxr-xr-x  1 root     root      2960560 Sep 14 16:45 xgo-linux-amd64
-rwxr-xr-x  1 root     root      2437864 Sep 14 16:45 xgo-linux-arm
-rwxr-xr-x  1 root     root      2551808 Sep 14 16:45 xgo-windows-386.exe
-rwxr-xr-x  1 root     root      3130368 Sep 14 16:45 xgo-windows-amd64.exe
</code></pre></div></div>

<h2 id="building-ethereum">Building Ethereum</h2>

<p>Cross compiling Ethereum is analogous to the above example, but an additional flags is
required to satisfy the dependencies:</p>

<ul>
  <li><code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">--deps</code> is used to inject arbitrary C dependency packages and pre-build them</li>
</ul>

<p>Injecting the GNU Arithmetic Library dependency and selecting <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">geth</code> would be:</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>$ xgo --deps=https://gmplib.org/download/gmp/gmp-6.0.0a.tar.bz2 \
      github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum/cmd/geth
...

$ ls -al
-rwxr-xr-x  1 root     root     23213372 Sep 14 17:59 geth-android-21-arm
-rwxr-xr-x  1 root     root     14373980 Sep 14 17:59 geth-darwin-386
-rwxr-xr-x  1 root     root     17373676 Sep 14 17:59 geth-darwin-amd64
-rwxr-xr-x  1 root     root     21098910 Sep 14 17:59 geth-linux-386
-rwxr-xr-x  1 root     root     25049693 Sep 14 17:59 geth-linux-amd64
-rwxr-xr-x  1 root     root     20578535 Sep 14 17:59 geth-linux-arm
-rwxr-xr-x  1 root     root     16351260 Sep 14 17:59 geth-windows-386.exe
-rwxr-xr-x  1 root     root     19418071 Sep 14 17:59 geth-windows-amd64.exe
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>As the cross compiler needs to build all the dependencies as well as the main project
itself for each platform, it may take a while for the build to complete (approximately 3-4
minutes on a Core i7 3770K machine).</p>

<h3 id="fine-tuning-the-build">Fine tuning the build</h3>

<p>By default Go, and inherently <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">xgo</code>, checks out and tries to build the master branch of a
source repository. However, more often than not, you’ll probably want to build a different
branch from possibly an entirely different remote repository. These can be controlled via
the <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">--remote</code> and <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">--branch</code> flags.</p>

<p>To build the <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">develop</code> branch of the official <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">go-ethereum</code> repository instead of the
default <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">master</code> branch, you just need to specify it as an additional command line flag
(<code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">--branch</code>):</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>$ xgo --deps=https://gmplib.org/download/gmp/gmp-6.0.0a.tar.bz2 \
      --branch=develop                                          \
      github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum/cmd/geth
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>Additionally, during development you will most probably want to not only build a custom
branch, but also one originating from your own fork of the repository instead of the
upstream one. This can be done via the <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">--remote</code> flag:</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>$ xgo --deps=https://gmplib.org/download/gmp/gmp-6.0.0a.tar.bz2 \
      --remote=https://github.com/karalabe/go-ethereum          \
      --branch=rpi-staging                                      \
      github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum/cmd/geth
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>By default <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">xgo</code> builds binaries for all supported platforms and architectures, with
Android binaries defaulting to the highest released Android NDK platform. To limit the
build targets or compile to a different Android platform, use the <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">--targets</code> CLI
parameter.</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>$ xgo --deps=https://gmplib.org/download/gmp/gmp-6.0.0a.tar.bz2 \
      --targets=android-16/arm,windows/*                        \
      github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum/cmd/geth
</code></pre></div></div>

<h3 id="building-locally">Building locally</h3>

<p>If you would like to cross compile your local development version, simply specify a local
path (starting with <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">.</code> or <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">/</code>), and <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">xgo</code> will use all local code from <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">GOPATH</code>, only
downloading missing dependencies. In such a case of course, the <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">--branch</code>, <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">--remote</code> and
<code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">--pkg</code> arguments are no-op:</p>

<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>$ xgo --deps=https://gmplib.org/download/gmp/gmp-6.0.0a.tar.bz2 \
      ./cmd/geth
</code></pre></div></div>

<h2 id="using-the-makefile">Using the Makefile</h2>

<p>Having understood the gist of <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">xgo</code> based cross compilation, you do not need to actually
memorize and maintain these commands, as they have been incorporated into the official
<a href="https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum/blob/master/Makefile">Makefile</a> and can be
invoked with a trivial <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">make</code> request:</p>

<ul>
  <li><code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">make geth-cross</code>: Cross compiles to every supported OS and architecture</li>
  <li><code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">make geth-&lt;os&gt;</code>: Cross compiles supported architectures of a particular OS (e.g. <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">linux</code>)</li>
  <li><code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">make geth-&lt;os&gt;-&lt;arch&gt;</code>: Cross compiles to a specific OS/architecture (e.g. <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">linux</code>, <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">arm</code>)</li>
</ul>

<p>We advise using the <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">make</code> based commands opposed to manually invoking <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">xgo</code> as we do
maintain the Makefile actively whereas we cannot guarantee that this document will be
always readily updated to latest advancements.</p>

<h3 id="tuning-the-cross-builds">Tuning the cross builds</h3>

<p>A few of the <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">xgo</code> build options have also been surfaced directly into the Makefile to
allow fine tuning builds to work around either upstream Go issues, or to enable some
fancier mechanics.</p>

<ul>
  <li><code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">make ... GO=&lt;go&gt;</code>: Use a specific Go runtime (e.g. <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">1.5.1</code>, <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">1.5-develop</code>, <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">develop</code>)</li>
  <li><code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">make ... MODE=&lt;mode&gt;</code>: Build a specific target type (e.g. <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">exe</code>, <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">c-archive</code>).</li>
</ul>

<p>Please note that these are not yet fully finalized, so they may or may not change in the
future as our code and the Go runtime features change.</p>

    </div>